The average person usually has to pee between four and seven times in 24 hours, but people with diabetes may go a lot more.Because your body is using fluids to make pee, there's less moisture for other things. Dry skin can make you itchy.Changing fluid levels in your body could make the lenses in your eyes swell up. 
They change shape and lose their ability to focus.
Most early symptoms are from higher than normal levels of glucose, a kind of sugar, in your blood.
increased hunger and thirst
.Researchers have identified a strong link between diabetes and depression.
 While this may be a result of managing life with a chronic condition, they might also share similar mechanisms in the body.
  Diabetes and depression also often make each other worse when they occur at the same time. 
  This condition impairs the ability of the stomach to empty, often as a result of damage to the vagus nerve, which is responsible for sending signals to the digestive tract.
   Gastroparesis can cause nausea, heartburn, weight loss, bloating, and loss of appetite.
   Diabetes reduces the ability of the mouth and gums to heal and fight infections. 
   Medications for managing diabetes might also lead to dry mouth as a side effect. This increases the risk of tooth decay. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), an estimated 33 percent of people with diabetes have chronic kidney disease. Diabetes can also damage blood vessels in the kidneys, impairing function. The kidneys play a vital role in balancing fluid levels and removing waste from the body. Kidney health is therefore vital for preserving overall health.High blood glucose levels can cause neuropathy, another name for nerve damage, especially in the feet and hands. People with diabetes become more likely to require amputations of the toes and feet due to poor circulation and damaged nerves. If blood sugar levels are too high, they can damage the eyes and cause vision loss and blindness. Retinopathy causes the development and leaking of new blood vessels behind the eye. Other effects of diabetes, such as high blood pressure and high cholesterol, can make this worse. According to the CDC, early treatment can prevent or reduce the risk of blindness in an estimated 90 percent of people with diabetes.
